All right what have we learned so far.
SSH uses both symmetric and asymmetric encryption since asymmetric encryption is more time consuming.
Most of the SSH connections use symmetric encryption.
As we've discussed the idea behind is that asymmetric encryption is used only to share a secret key.
And then finally using that key that is symmetric encryption for further communication so it's fast
now once a secure symmetric communication has been established the server uses the client's public key
and generate a challenge and transmitted to the client for authentication if the client can successfully
decrypt the message.
Well it means that it holds the private key required for a connection then the same session finally
begins.
So we finally have this secure tunnel everything's happy and we can communicate in a secure way.
One problem though.
Someone can sit in the middle and pretend to be the other and tamper or modify the message.
If they somehow convince the client that they're the host and the host that they're the client they
can just have this key exchange between one another and the information came flow through that middleman.
Now to solve one of these problems we'll talk about something called hashing and hashing is another
form of cryptography used in secure shell connections.
Now in my other course the complete web developer we use something called decrypt to hash passwords.
So you may remember that now one way hash functions differ from the above two forms of corruption.
The symmetrical and in asymmetric in that they're never meant to decrypt anything.
They simply generate a unique value of a fixed length for each input.
That A gets and there one way because if I hash Hello it's going to run through a function that spits
out jibberish really really fast with the trick being that we have no idea how to get back to the whole
text.
So if going through a hash.
If somebody looks at this they it's pretty much impossible for anybody to go back and figure out what
this means.
So how is that useful Well as we mentioned before.
SSH is able to transmit messages securely but if a third party is able to dupe the client and the host
well they can tamper with the messages.
Maybe they could change the messages for nefarious reasons.
Luckily for us using the third technique hashes we're able to verify the authentication of the message
was so the bad person.
Well the bad person can modify our messages.
This is done using something called HMX or hash based Message Authentication codes.
I know it's a mouthful.
These names are getting really really confusing but the gist of it is this using a hash function each
message that is transmitted must contain a something called Mac and this Mac is a hash generated from
the symmetric key.
The packet sequence number and the message contents that were sent.
So let's say this client is trying to send the password with the host and they've already established
a symmetric key for secure communication while using the packet sequence number the key and then whatever
text I'm sending and this case let's just say we're sending the password.
I combine this into as an input into a hash function and this function is going to spit out some piece
of string.
That means absolutely nothing.
And now this is sent to the host.
But this means nothing right.
So how can the host check that the message hasn't been tampered with.
Well what they can do now is because they have the same information they can use their own symmetric
key which is the same as the clients.
They can use the packet sequence number again which they both know and then because this message was
sent through SSH they also have that message that was sent.
So now they run it through the same hash function again.
And once it calculates it it's going to see does what I just generated match what the client hash was.
And if it does match well that means that this message was not tampered with because at any point if
the password even one letter even a capitalization was changed this hash will be completely different.
And that is one characteristic of hash functions change.
Any single thing no matter how similar the inputs.
Maybe it's going to spit out a completely different number now learning everything we have up until
this point.
We should understand what's going on when we type in SSH at IP address or do you see up until now I
may have lied to you a little bit because everything that we've talked about if I go to my terminal
right now and we only implemented this well I would S-sh into that Digital Ocean server.
Press enter
and I get a password requirement but that didn't happen did it when I showed you in previous videos
I just immediately logged on and I was able to do anything that I wanted and like I said I cheated a
little bit here and I'll show you why that was and why we need to finally enter a password and the next
video.
I know a little bit of a cliffhanger.
I'll see in the next video.
Bye-Bye.